SOLIDWORKS 2016 is coming soon, and presently
Subscription Service customers can download a beta version of 2016
and give it a try. There were literally hundreds of enhancements in SOLIDWORKS 2015, have you managed to give the top features a try yet? Here is a reminder of the top 10 features in SOLIDWORKS 2015 and their associated benefits:
1. NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOWS
Reduce time to market and comply with new industry standards.
SOLIDWORKS® Model Based Definition (MBD)
enables drawingless product detailing with 3D PMI annotations; output to eDrawings® or 3D PDF
SOLIDWORKS Treehouse provides visual assembly structure planning, creation, editing, and viewing
Prepare models automatically for export to popular AEC applications
SOLIDWORKS Treehouse
2. INTEGRATED CAPABILITIES CONNECT DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING
Speed downstream manufacturing and bridge the gap between design and manufacturing.
SOLIDWORKS Inspection
automates inspection drawing and report creation
SOLIDWORKS Costing
supports sensors and costing of weldments, plastic/cast parts, machined castings, and 3D printed parts
Print directly to
3D printers
in AMF and 3MF formats
Use advanced techniques to flatten surfaces
SOLIDWORKS Inspection
3. SOLIDWORKS PERFORMANCE
Faster modeling, analysis, and rendering capabilities leaves more time to improve designs.
File size reduced by ~50%
Faster component patterning and hide/show of assemblies
SOLIDWORKS Simulation
supports Intel® Solver and multi-core contact detection
Define specific graphic regions to render in PhotoView 360
SOLIDWORKS Enterprise PDM manages large data sets more efficiently
Incremental Simulation Results
4. PART AND SURFACE MODELING
Create sketches, complex patterns, and advanced geometry faster and with less effort.
Sketch: Line from midpoint;
rectangle with horizontal/vertical construction lines
Splines: Improved Spline on Surface; convert Style Spline to Spline Points
Patterns: Improved Fill,
Linear
, Chain and
Variable Pattern
Advanced geometry: Asymmetric Fillets;
split surfaces
; sketch plane normal to view
Improved Patterns
5. ASSEMBLIES
Faster, easier, more intuitive assembly creation, control and view creation.
Mates
: Center components on faces; select geometry to limit Width Mate
Routing for rectangular sections, e.g., HVAC ducts, cable trays and chutes
Simulate roller/energy chains using patterns
along open or closed loops
Exploded View
: Radially and along axis; space components on drag
6. DRAWING IMPROVEMENTS
Find drawing views faster, and experience more automation and control.
Track view locations with
Enhanced formatting control of drawing and table notes
Omit layers from printing;
use splines as leaders
Improved angle dimensioning
and command of decimal rounding
Automated drawing sheet zone annotations
7. DESIGN SIMULATION
Simulate real-life scenarios to predict product performance prior to manufacturing.
Predict product durability under dynamic loading
in SOLIDWORKS Simulation and Load Case Manager for loads combination
View your nonlinear results during the solve
in SOLIDWORKS Simulation to ensure convergence
Rotating mesh regions in SOLIDWORKS Flow Simulation delivers enhanced simulation of rotating machinery
SOLIDWORKS Plastics improves plastic part design with up-front Venting Analysis
8. ELECTRICAL DESIGN
Accelerate the development, creation, and integrity of electrical systems designs.
Dynamic Connector
tools simplify the design and use of connectors
Advanced access to user-based controls for key tools
In-line 3D routing diagnostics identifies and resolves routing issues
Advanced Formula Manager provides access to system and mathematical variables in complex formulas
9. USER EXPERIENCE
Work more efficiently and better understand/visualize the design intent of your models.
Dynamic Reference Visualization
shows a graphical view of relationships between features
Selection Sets
let you select multiple entities and save them for reuse
Isolate components while editing in context within an assembly
Temporarily preview hidden bodies or components from the FeatureManager
Selection Sets
10. EXPANDED COMMUNICATION AND COLLABORATION
Expand the reach of your design tools with faster, easier data connections and better social collaboration – anytime, anywhere.
SOLIDWORKS Enterprise PDM Web2 client
connects browser-ready devices to a vault
eDrawings 2015 now has a UI adapted for touchscreen
and supports SOLIDWORKS Plastics result plots
MySolidWorks offers enhanced online learning and certification
; ability to share/view designs online and search a global manufacturing network
Collaborative Sharing uses community-based social innovation to provide greater connectivity to SOLIDWORKS, eDrawings, and DraftSight®
Enterprise PDM Web2 Client
Do you want to adopt the SOLIDWORKS 2015 skills?
As you have learned in this review of SOLIDWORKS 2015 the software is always changing, with over 200 new enhancements in the latest release you need to update your skillset in order to make the most of the new technology. Our
2 day SOLIDWORKS Advanced Update Course
(or 4 day/3 hours per day online course) is valuable to users that need to update their skills and techniques to the latest version of SOLIDWORKS. Participants will learn new and effective software capabilities, best practices, and current tips and tricks. Fill out the form to learn more about the update solutions available for your business: