An existing file set can be duplicated, perhaps to be re-used as a starting point for a new project, within the SOLIDWORKS PDM Vault using the Copy Tree command.
However an issue that may come up is that the source files that the
Copy Tree
is performed on most likely contain certain project specific information, and revision values that are already written to their data card variables.
For example let’s use Copy Tree to create a copy of a ‘Base’ assembly shown in the figure below:
Copy Tree command selected
The referenced assembly files are selected automatically by the Copy Tree tool as shown below:
Copy Tree Dialog
When the copy is complete you can see in the figure below that the copied assembly data card includes the original variable values such as assy number, revision, description etc.
Copied file metadata
After the files have been copied, it can be a time consuming, and potentially error filled process to manually clear all of these data card variables.
Automatically clearing Copy Tree data variables
Thankfully, we can specify which data card variables should automatically have their variables cleared when the Copy Tree command is performed.
This is set by going to the PDM Administration console, right-clicking on the Users node and selecting “Settings”.
In the Settings dialog:
Pick
Copy Tree
from the list
Click on the
Add…
button to add a file type, you can simply leave the default value of *.* to have the same settings affect all file type, or if different data card variables are being populated for different file types, you can create a unique list of variables to update for each file extension.
Click the
Add Variable
button and then specify the variable that should be changed by the Copy Tree.  Leave the Value field blank to simply have that variable be cleared.
Pick
OK
to finish
Next time you use Copy Tree the variable[s] will follow the instructions you entered in the SOLIDWORKS PDM Admin settings.
Copy Tree Settings
Learn more about SOLIDWORKS PDM
Attend our
SOLIDWORKS PDM Administration training course
to learn more about administering SOLIDWORKS PDM either online, in-class, or on-site at your office.