Before your
SOLIDWORKS PDM
users can start working in the vault they will need to be set up within SOLIDWORKS PDM first, to do this follow the steps below.
Creating New SOLIDWORKS PDM Users Step-by-Step Guide
Open the “Administration” tool and log in to the vault as “Admin” or a user that has the “Can Administrate Users” Administrative Permission.
You can find this tool by going to a computer that has SOLIDWORKS PDM installed on it and then Start Menu -> “SOLIDWORKS PDM” Folder -> “Administration”.
Navigate and expand the “Users and Groups Management” node.
Right-click the “Users” node and select “New User”.
User’s right-click context menu
In the “Add User” dialog box:
If the user account is already listed, check the box, highlight it, and move on to “Step 6”.
User accounts are listed if they have already been added to another vault on the same archive server but have not been added to the vault you are managing.
or if the user account is not listed, select “New SOLIDWORKS PDM User”.
PDM “Add Users” dialog box
In the “New User” dialog box, enter the user’s login name and click “OK”.
“New User” Dialog box
Back in the “Add Users” dialog box, type in the user’s details
To give this user permissions already assigned to an existing user, use the dropdown list to select the existing user in the “Copy permissions and settings from User:” section and the new user will inherit all permissions and groups that the existing user had.
Fill in the new User’s basic information
Click “Next”.
In the user’s “Properties” dialog box, use the nodes to set the permission for how the user can work in SOLIDWORKS PDM
For basic viewing privileges please see our article on
“
What Permissions are needed to view files in SOLIDWORKS PDM?”
.
Click “OK” to complete the user creation process, you should now see the user list under the “Users” Node.
“Users” node list of current users
Now if you already have a
vault view
set up the new SOLIDWORKS PDM user that has just been created will be able to log in and start working.