Templates
can be used to create files from a master file (i.e. ECO’s), project folder structures and assign variables through a
Template Card
. This article will provide an overview of the main sections which can be used to create a template. Some sections will be covered in greater detail in subsequent articles.
In SolidWorks Enterprise PDM Administration, right-click the
Templates
node and select
New Template…
In the first Window we provide a name for our template.
In the
Execute as
Window you specify what permissions are granted when files and/or folders are created.
Use the permissions from the logged in user
uses the folder and/or state permissions of the user running the template.
Read permissions from the following use
r is useful when the logged in user lacks sufficient permissions to folder, and/or state. When a user runs the template, the assigned user’s permissions are temporarily used.
Template Cards
are used to input information when running the template. The
Template Card
is similar in function to the
File Data Card,
with the exception that the
Template Card
is only accessed once, when running the template.
Template Variables
can be created and linked to
Variables
in the Template Card. If the
Template Card Variables
are also used in the
File Data Card
, information entered in the
Template Card
will populate the
File Data Card
. The use of
Template Cards
will be covered in more detail in another article.
In the
Files and Folders
section you can define a
Folder
structure for a new project. The folder structure consists of a root folder and optional sub-folders. The root folder can be created in a specific location inside the vault, or it can be set to the Current Folder. If the Current Folder option is selected, the template creates the file in the folder where the template is run.
Both the root folders and sub-folders can be linked to a template variable, so that the folder inherits the value of the template variable.
Also in the Files and Folders Section you can assign a template file which can be used to create additional documents for a specific project such as ECO’s. Please refer the related blog posts:
EPDM – Office Templates
&
EPDM – Mapping Variables to Microsoft Office
An Icon can be assigned to the template which appears next to the template name in the list of templates from the Vault View
New
menu.
And access can be granted to users and groups.