When troubleshooting connectivity issues for some SOLIDWORKS products, such as the SolidNetwork License Manager, SOLIDWORKS Workgroup PDM or SOLIDWORKS Enterprise PDM, it’s possible that a ping test may succeed but the communication may still be failing.
A Telnet Test can be very useful in such situations to determine if the issue still is a network communication issue or if it’s an issue with the particular software.  The Telnet Test allows you to ensure that a specific port on the target system is open and responding.
Set Up the Telnet Test
To perform a Telnet Test, the Telnet Client needs to be turned on by going to the Control Panel > Programs >
Turn Windows features on or off
, or by going to Programs and Features and clicking Turn Windows features on or off from there.  In the list of Windows Features, check the box beside
Telnet Client
to enable the feature.
Add remove programs
The Telnet Client will take a few minutes to turn on.
Windows Features Update
Perform the Telnet Test
To perform the actual test, launch the Cmd prompt and type in the command
telnet
, followed by a space then the target
computer name
, followed by another space and then the
port number
.  This should look like: telnet host_name port_number.  Press Enter to perform the telnet.  If the telnet succeeds the prompt will display a flashing cursor, if it fails it will report that it cannot open the connection.  The most common reason for a failed Telnet Test is if the Firewall settings are blocking the port.
Cmd Window
Successful Connection
Failed Connection
Common communication ports for SOLIDWORKS products:
SolidNetWork License Manager
TCP port
25734
and
25735
SOLIDWORKS Workgroup PDM
Request
:  TCP port
40000
Data
:  TCP port
30000
VaultAdmin
:  TCP port
20000
Viewer
:  TCP port
80
SOLIDWORKS Enterprise PDM
Archive Server
:  TCP and UDP port
3030
SQL Server
:  TCP port
1433
and UDP port
1434
Web Server
:  HTTP port
80
and HTTPS port
443
Video Demonstration
Watch the video below or visit our YouTube Channel:
https://youtu.be/sI9S-ItQuoc