The
SOLIDWORKS PDM
Local Vault View tool:
Modify
>
Update
>
Values in Files
, is a great tool for copying variable values, from a Folder Data Card, to Files. This tool will copy specified Variable values in a folder, to corresponding variables of selected files.
As noted, this tool is available in the PDM Local Vault View, from the Modify pull-down.
Modify > Update > Values in Files
To use this tool:
We first select the folder, whose data card contains the Variable value(s), we want to copy. Modify > Update > Values in Files, will remain grayed, until the folder is selected.
We also need to consider, whether this Variable, whose value we are copying, is a Version Free Variable or not.
If it is not a Version Free Variable, these files must first be Checked Out.
Once we have met all these conditions, we can launch Modify > Update > Values in Files.
On the first screen, we can filter files by keywords, identify if we are updating Version Free Variables and whether we want to update files in sub-folders. If no search string is entered for the file name, all files will be selected.
Update files in sub-folders
On the next page, we identify which States the target files can be in.
States the target files can be in
Next we select files, generated by the search, which will be updated.
Files to be updated
Once we identified the files to updated, we select the Variable(s), whose value we want to update. The current Folder Card value will be displayed.
Variables to update
These Variable values, can be copied to the file’s Custom Property or Configuration Specific Properties.
Custom Property or Configuration Specific Properties
The last step is start the update, by clicking on Finish.
Finish to update files
You will be able to see the progress of the update and be notified when it is complete.
Update completed
When updating sub-folders, the behavior can vary, and this depend on whether the value for the Variable of the sub-folder, matches the value of the main folder. If it does, then the value of the main folder, will be copied to the files in the sub-folder. If the value for the Variable of the sub-folder does not match, the value of the main folder, then the sub-folders value will be copied, to the file.