When troubleshooting
SOLIDWORKS PDM
issues, a helpful resource you can utilize is the SOLIDWORKS PDM Client logs. These log files let you see
SOLIDWORKS PDM
events from the local client. It reports activities such as logins, vault connection attempts, and database access events.
As a result, you can use the log file when troubleshooting
SOLIDWORKS PDM
problems. Your SOLIDWORKS VAR might ask for this log so that they can see what PDM is recording about your specific issue.
Opening the PDM Client Logs
The SOLIDWORKS PDM Client logs are easily accessible from inside the PDM Administration tool.
To find the log file, use the steps below:
Navigate to Start>All Programs>SolidWorks PDM>Administration.
Expand the Local Settings.
In the PDM Administration tool, double-click on Log File.
Opening the Client Logs
This will open the log and show all the events being recorded from the client software. At this point, you typically need to save this out for further investigation.
Viewing the SOLIDWORKS PDM Client log
Saving the PDM Client logs
Depending on what version of SOLIDWORKS PDM you are using, there are different ways to save the file. Typically, your SOLIDWORKS VAR will want this saved as a COG file, as it is the easiest format for them to use/read. This guide will focus on saving these log files in the COG format.
For 2022 and earlier versions:
For SOLIDWORKS 2022 and older versions, click the icon shown below to copy the log file, then right-click on your desktop or another location in File Explorer, and paste the file. At this point, the COG file can be moved, attached to an email, or uploaded to a file-sharing platform.
Copy button on the log file
For 2023 and newer versions:
With SOLIDWORKS 2023 and newer, the process has been streamlined. All that’s needed is to click the Save button and save the log file as a COG file. At this point, the COG file can be moved, attached to an email, or uploaded to a file-sharing platform.
Save button on the log file
Are you still having issues after reading the Client log files? Contact our Technical Support Team here.