Aras PLM is a full-featured, business-ready product lifecycle management software solution built on top of SOLIDWORKS® PDM Professional that extends PDM and related engineering business processes and drives cross-functional collaboration enterprise-wide.
Aras PLM delivers powerful capabilities that are highly sought-after by companies that run SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional including:
A complete engineering BOM
that’s ready for release to manufacturing.
Enterprise-wide
business process management
for change control across your company and your connected supply chain.
Stage-gate
project management
process that seamlessly connects your product items to a project plan as deliverables and milestones.
Watch our on-demand webinar below as we discuss how to add BOM and Configuration Management to your current SOLIDWORKS PDM system.
Bill of Material Management
BOM management with Aras helps organizations connect and manage multiple sources of information in a single database. Easily create and maintain structured, multi-level bill of materials for each stage of the product lifecycle. Easily synchronize EBOMs and MBOMs for clear visibility into cross-disciplinary change statuses through, design, manufacture and service.
Aras PLM BOM Management
During the webinar you will learn:
How to select alternate/substitute parts
Applying options (variants) and configuration rules
BOM redlining and comparison
Target-estimated-calculated-actual weight and cost
Viewing multiple BOM views
Configuration Management
Aras PLM Configuration Management provides a comprehensive methodology for managing the configuration (hierarchical set of information) of a product or system throughout its life.
Aras Part Lifecycle
During the webinar you will learn:
How Aras PLM provides configuration identification, control, status accounting and verification
How to track baselines at different stages of the product lifecycle, e.g. as-designed, as-built, as-maintained
How to utilize graphical online business process workflows with email notifications and reminders