SOLIDWORKS PDM is a highly customizable data management tool that can accommodate unique product development processes. The most often customized aspect of PDM is the workflows that files follow from initial design to release. If a file requires multiple approvals to transition into the next state then the parallel approval functionality may be an ideal addition to your workflow setup.
In
SOLIDWORKS PDM
Professional, a Parallel transition is a type of workflow transition where the process requires parallel action from multiple users before the file changes its state. The file will stay in its current state until the required number of approvals are completed by the assigned users or groups.
Setting up Parallel Transitions
When the Parallel transition type is selected in the New Transition dialog box, a “Roles” tab is added to the transition properties. This tab allows you to specify any users or groups who can approve the transition for the file and move it to its next workflow state. After the changes have been made to the transition, the transition should be highlighted in green in the workflow. The option to “Hide when sibling parallel transition is chosen” hides transitions after the file enters a Parallel transition.
To dive deeper into that option, read our blog on the topic here.
New Transition Properties
When adding Roles for the transition you must specify the name of the role, the users for the role, and the required number of approvals. For example, you can have X number of users from each department needing to approve or have Y number of required approvals from a pool of specified users. In the image below, the
name of the role
is displayed alongside the
number of approvals required
over the
total number of users
in the second column.
PDM Transition Roles
Using Parallel Transitions
The transition dialog for the file (under the “Change State” right-click menu option) will indicate the number of approvals completed and the number of approvals required for the file to change state. The image below shows the Released Documents transition with zero users who have approved the transition. In this instance, it would require two additional approvals before transitioning to the next workflow state.
Released Documents transition with no approvals
After approving a file, users can revoke their approval if the situation warrants it. Revoking might occur if the file was approved accidentally or if there are required changes that were missed the first time around. This can only be done before the number of required approvals is met and the state change transition has not yet taken place. On approval, users can add transition and notification comments for the file’s audit trail to be viewed later. The file history will provide visibility of the file’s current status in the workflow and where it is in the product design lifecycle.
Revoking approval
Interested in having TriMech implement or customize SOLIDWORKS PDM for your team? Learn about our Data Management Services here.