Templates can be used to create a new folder or even a folder structure. This can be done through a simple right click in the Explorer Vault View.
Templates are created through the Template node of SolidWorks Enterprise PDM Administration. Right click on the node and select and select
New Template
.
Provide a
Name
for this template.
Assign whose permissions are to be used when running the template.
We will not be looking at Template Cards at this time and will be going directly to
Files & Folders
. Click on
Template Variables
.
We want to associate the name of one of our folders, to a serial number that has already been created in the
Serial Number
node of SolidWorks Enterprise PDM Administration. We name the
Template Variable
, choose
Serial Number
as the
Type
and choose the required serial number from the
Serial Number
pull-down. To return to the Folder tab we press on
OK
. The “t_” at the beginning of the template variable name, helps identify that this is a template variable.
Both Root Folders (yellow icon) and Sub Folders (green icon) can be created. Root folders are created at the root level of the vault.
A folder can be associated to a
Template Variable,
so that it displays the value of the that variable. In this example the “Project Number”
Serial Numbe
r. the
“%”
must proceed and follow the variable name. To avoid typo’s, copy the
Template Variable
name, from the
Template Variables
window.
Sub folders can be added to the parent folder (shown in yellow), or to an existing sub-folder (shown in green).
PDM Template setting that is often mis looked…
To copy
Template Variables
to a folder’s data card, right click the folder and go to
Properties.
Then you can select the
Card Variable
that will be mapped to the
Template Variable
.
An
Icon
is added.
And Permissions are assigned.
In the SolidWorks Enterprise PDM Explorer Vault View, we can run our template from a right mouse menu.
The template will generate the parent folder and any sub folders. In our example, the parent folder reflects the Project Number serial number.