CIMdata recently released
an article
titled, “
PLM for All: Unleashing Product Data to the Enterprise
.” It talks about the actual use and perception of
PLM
in industry and makes solid points about what is needed to realize the value potential of PLM.
Aras PLM in use
Here is a shocker:
PLM is
NOT
Engineering
Here is another:
PDM is
NOT
PLM
We are in the PLM business. But ultimately our job is to help you to make better products and services. Why? Simple,
PLM is all about the PRODUCT
. A product is much more than a cool assembly in your favorite CAD system. That’s just the virtual manifestation of the as-designed product – we call that the eBOM.
Firms build products. They don’t make Engineering. Operations doesn’t make money. It is ALL about the product. The entire firm is assembled to make that product. The collective effort makes money when that product sells.
If the firm is inefficient or the product is poor quality or doesn’t meet the market need – they may not make money
.
CIMdata makes a good point relating to the holistic nature of PLM:
PLM can’t be an engineering system, just supporting a limited set of product data and a narrow set of processes. It needs to function as an enterprise product data platform, bringing together information from multiple product data sources and delivering value to all product data stakeholders (i.e., all life cycle participants who create and/or use product data and other relevant information).
This statement highlights that PLM needs to support different kinds of users throughout the life cycle of the product. Part of this solution is the “Through life cycle BOM.” It details the definition of the product from the customer/market desires all the way through to servicing that product in the field. It is not just Engineering data or Manufacturing process plans. It details the entire life cycle of the product in a manner that is traceable from end to end though a system of relationships that connect each individual BOM.
This is not just powerful. It provides real value to the firm. For example, if there were a warranty problem the team could find the impacted units, where the part came from (mBOM make vs. buy) and find out why the part was there in the first place (requirements & eBOM).
Now add in the ability to make changes, from the customer or the quality team, and the value of PLM becomes even more evident. Configuration Management is a key factor in PLM. What may be a simple change on paper may drive changes in the logical BOM, eBOM and mBOM(s), require new analysis and testing, and force a change to the assembly line. Try managing that in Excel!
To enable all of these key abilities, PLM needs to interface with many systems. All of these systems are important. No one more than another. You need your ERP system to connect to the as-planned BOM (mBOM) and manage the financial aspects of product development. MES handles the actual creation of the product and provides me with the true As Built BOM – after any deviations happen. And the MRO system handles service and warranty issues via the As Serviced BOM. All of these systems interact with the various BOMs in the product life cycle and contribute to the product (i.e. through Lifecycle BOM). The organizational silos are simply our human need for structure.
The CIMdata piece made great points about what PLM is and should be to realize financial value.
Adaptability, maintainability and upgradability are the hallmarks of Aras Innovator
. Wrapping all of this together – the ability to customize, integrate other systems, manage product configuration at any point in the life cycle, manage complex changes, provide accurate traceability and provide maintainability and upgradability – those are all crucial aspects of a well-built PLM platform.
These factors are what enables your firm to make great and profitable products.