To ensure the safety of your
SOLIDWORKS PDM
data, it’s essential to have a maintenance plan in place to perform regular (preferably nightly) backups of the vault database and the ConisioMasterDB database.
A Maintenance Plan that will automatically backup the databases
can be set up for SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional using the SQL Server Agent included in Microsoft SQL Standard.
Note
:
SOLIDWORKS PDM Standard
does NOT  include the SQL Server Agent so this method does not work for PDM Standard vaults.
However over time those backups will take up a great deal of hard drive space if they are not cleaned up and removed.  This process can also be automated by the SQL Server Agent.
Steps to removing Old SQL Database Backups
Step 1:
Ensure that the
SQL Server Agent
service is running.  Launch the
SQL Server Configuration Manager
program and check that the
SQL Server Agent
is currently running, if it isn’t right click the Agent and click
Start
.
SQL Server Configuration Manager
Step 2
:  Log into the Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio and expand the
Management
folder in the Object Explorer then right click on the
Maintenance Plans
folder and select the
Maintenance Plan Wizard
command.
Maintenance Plan Wizard command
Step 3
:  When the Wizard launches the starting page explains further what functions can be automated using the Maintenance Plan.  Click
Next
.
Wizard starting page
Step 4
:  Name the maintenance plan, the click
Change
to create a schedule for the plan to run on.
Name the maintenance plan
Step 5:
You can run the plan
Daily
,
Weekly
or
Monthly
at whichever time will work for you.  If you already have a Maintenance Plan in place to perform the backups, you may want to schedule the Cleanup to take place on the same schedule.  Click
OK
to set the schedule, then click
Next
.
Run the plan Daily, Weekly or Monthly
Step 6:
Select the
Maintenance Cleanup Task
option and click
Next
.
Maintenance Cleanup Task
Step 7:
On the Task Order screen ensure that the Maintenance Cleanup Task is listed, otherwise go back a step and select it again, then click
Next
.
Maintenance Cleanup Task Enabled
Step 8:
Define the options for the Cleanup Task. Click “…” to specify the folder where the SQL Database backup files are being saved.  Specify the Age of the files which should be removed by the task.  If backups are being done daily for instance, setting the Cleanup Task to remove any files over 14 days old will keep only 14 .bak files from each database being backed up.  Once the options are set, click
Next
.
Define the options for the Cleanup Task
Step 9
:  If you wish you can set up a report text file, then click
Next
.
Set up a report text file
Step 10
:  Finally, review settings and click
Finish
to complete the Maintenance Plan Wizard.
Complete the Maintenance Plan Wizard