Sometimes it is necessary to ensure that certain users always have a license of SOLIDWORKS PDM or SOLIDWORKS Manage available. This can be done by using the Options File for the SolidNetwork License Manager.
In other posts we’ve discussed how the Options File can be used to change the
default timeout for PDM licenses
, the
default timeout for SOLIDWORKS licenses
, how to
block borrowing of SOLIDWORKS licenses
and
how to reserve just SOLIDWORKS licenses
, now let’s look at reserving SOLIDWORKS PDM and SOLIDWORKS Manage licenses for certain users.
How to create a Custom Options File
Step 1:
Launch the SOLIDWORKS SolidNetWork License Manager program and click “Modify…” on the
Server Administration
tab.
SolidNetWork License Manager – Modify
Step 2:
Select the option to “Activate/Reactivate a software license” and then click “Next >”.
Activate/Reactivate a License
Step 3:
On the next screen check the box beside “Options File” and click “Edit”.
Edit Options File
Step 4:
If you do not have an Options File created yet you will be presented with the option to create a new one in the default path.
Create Options File
Step 5:
Now we write our Options File.  First, let’s set the Options file to be case insensitive. By default the Options file will read user and group names as being case sensitive.  This frequently leads to some confusion so avoid this, we will enable the keyword GROUPCASEINSENSITIVE:
GROUPCASEINSENSITIVE ON
Next, the groups will need to be defined.
These are not the groups already setup in SOLIDWORKS PDM.
The SNL Manager has no idea that those groups exist, so the groups for the purpose of reserving licenses MUST be explicitly defined in the Options File.
The correct syntax will be to have the Option Keyword, in this case GROUP, followed by the group name, then each user name that is a member of the group, each separated by a space.  This is the PDM username NOT the Window username, which would be the case if you have set up groups to reserve SOLIDWORKS licenses.  So if you have already defined groups of users in the Options File to reserve SOLIDWORKS licenses, you may need to create entirely new groups, with different usernames to reserve the PDM licenses.  So as an example, we can define two groups for whom we want to ensure there will always be a license available, the senior designers and the PDM administrators:
GROUP senior_design scott chris joe

GROUP administrators justin andrew
This is then followed by the actual reserve option definition.  The correct syntax will be to have the Option Keyword, in this case RESERVE, followed by the number of licenses to reserve, followed by GROUP and then the name of the group, each separated by a space.  So if we need to reserve three SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional CAD Editor licenses for the three senior designers, but just one PDM Professional Contributor license to be shared between the two administrators (who are not using SOLIDWORKS), we will add:
RESERVE 3 swepdm_cadeditorandweb GROUP senior_design

RESERVE 1 swepdm_contributorandweb GROUP administrators
Reserving SOLIDWORKS PDM Licenses
The Feature Names of the SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional products are:
Product Name
Feature Name
CAD Editor
swepdm_cadeditorandweb
Contributor
swepdm_contributorandweb
Viewer
swepdm_viewer
Universal (PSL)
swepdm_processor
The Feature Names of the SOLIDWORKS Manage products are:
Product Name
Feature Name
CAD Editor
swmanagepro_editor
Contributor
swmanagepro_contributor
Viewer
swmanagepro_viewer
Universal (PSL)
swmanagepro_processor
The Feature Names of the SOLIDWORKS PDM Standard products are:
Product Name
Feature Name
CAD Editor
swpdmstd_cadeditor
Contributor
swpdmstd_contributor
Viewer
swpdmstd_viewer
Step 6:
Once the Options File text is finished, save the sw_d.opt file and close it.
Save SolidNetwork License Manager Options File
Step 7:
Ensure that all server information is correct and click Next to proceed to the next screen.
Check Server Information
Step 8:
Click “Select All” to make sure all your SOLIDWORKS products are selected for reactivation, enter your contact email and click “Next>” to complete the reactivation process.
Activate License
Activation/Reactivation Succeeded