If you have ever needed to restore deleted PDM users that have been prematurely deleted in previous versions of PDM you were pretty much out of luck and all you could do was to create a new user with an identical name. This recreated user wasn’t exactly the same as the deleted user, it has some limitations. In SOLIDWORKS PDM 2023, there is a new feature that will allow you to restore the deleted user permissions and all. Alternatively, if you want to delete the user permanently, please view
this article
.
For all who need a quick reminder on how to delete users please see the following steps:
In the Administration tool
Double-click the Vault where the user exists and log in with Admin credentials.
Expand “Users and Groups Management” and then expand the “Users” node.
Right-click the User in question and then select “Delete”.
Administration tools “User” node.
How to restore deleted PDM users in PDM 2022 and previous version years
In PDM 2022 and previous version years if you wanted to “restore” this user you essentially had to recreate an identical user, but it wasn’t the same exact user and any references to this deleted user in that vault previously had this “Deleted” suffix, you couldn’t check-in files that were accidentally left checked out when the user was originally deleted and you had to reset all of their permissions/groups.
History of Light.SLDASM file after a user has been deleted.
How to restore deleted PDM users in PDM 2023 and onward
Now in version years after PDM 2023 if you want to recover a user that has been deleted by using the steps above all you have to do is expand the “User and group management” node, right-click on “Users” and select “Deleted Users”
Right-click on User node in the Administration Tool.
From here you can check the “Restore Login” box of the user you wish to restore and close this window. You will be prompted to save the changes, click “Yes” or the user will not be restored.
You are prompted to save “Deleted User” changes.
The user is now restored, you can now log into the vault with this user and all indications that this user was deleted have been restored to its original state.
History of Light.SLDASM file after user has been restored.
Additionally, with this new feature you can also take a look at past deleted user’s Properties (Information, Permissions) and their Setting by navigating back to the “Deleted Users…” option and right-clicking any user there and selecting these options.