Right now with the COVID-19 outbreak a lot of companies are being forced to change the way they operate, with employees having to work remotely outside of the office. This means accessing the shared SOLIDWORKS data in your office becomes more of a challenge. In a
previous post
we presented the different methods available for accessing data through
Remote Desktop Tools
,
VPN (Virtual Private Network)
and
Cloud options
.
In this post I will outline the various PDM and Cloud services that Javelin provides, so you are aware of the options available and how you can get help to remotely access your data.
Javelin Cloud Services
Remote SOLIDWORKS PDM Services
Javelin’s team of Certified Experts provide a variety of remote services including System Implementation, Health Check, Optimization and Upgrades.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Implementation Service
: If you need to organize your business for working remotely then we can provide you with a SOLIDWORKS PDM implementation service that will ensure your PDM system is installed correctly and optimized for remote sharing. Certified PDM Implementation Experts will also advise you on best practices and make you self sufficient. We have refined the implementation process over 20+ years helping thousands of customers with data and document management issues.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Upgrade Service
: If you are upgrading your SOLIDWORKS PDM from Standard to Professional in order to take advantage of web tools and access in the professional version; then you should consider our remote PDM Upgrade Service to ensure that the upgrade goes smoothly and downtime is kept to a minimum.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Audit Service
: Javelin’s team of Certified PDM Experts can provide you with a comprehensive SOLIDWORKS PDM Audit to ensure you system is optimized for working remotely. Our analysis will determine if there are any issues with your system, establish it’s running at full capacity, verify your data is fully protected, and check that the latest enhancements and features are being utilized.
Javelin Cloud Services
Javelin’s Amazon Web Service (AWS) Certified Experts provide
cloud infrastructure and application migration solutions
to small and medium sized businesses. We can help you to Plan, Design, Build, Migrate, Run, Operate, and Optimize your cloud service.
Javelin Cloud Mentoring
: Get the guidance you need to select the right service levels from AWS Services. Our team will evaluate your existing PDM infrastructure and provide a future needs analysis including:
Servers/Virtual Machines (VMs)
Storage Needs
Virtualized Hosts or Bare Metal
Internal network cabling
Routers and Switches
External bandwidth requirements and availability, which includes:
Match needs to AWS offerings:
EC2 instance types
EBS storage types
Network Needs and Configuration
We also provide an AWS network diagram for a proposed infrastructure
Javelin Cloud Network Configuration
: The Javelin team can build a seamless connection between AWS and your current network infrastructure. The service includes:
Current infrastructure analysis
Switching and Routing
Network Speeds and Capacity
VPN Appliances
External Bandwidth Availability
Hardware recommendations for Optimal Performance
Hardware and Network configuration and testing
Javelin Cloud Server Services
Client-Side Configurations
DNS Configurations
Javelin Cloud PDM Installation and Setup
: Javelin AWS and SOLIDWORKS PDM Services Team will provide you with the network configuration that best suits your PDM requirements on the Cloud:
AWS configuration and build out (SQL, PDM database and PDM Archive in place)
Configure Amazon SNS for AWS notifications delivery
Configure Amazon SES for PDM SMTP Notifications Delivery (if necessary)
Configure AWS VPC for Delivery of PDM SMTP Notifications to OnPrem SMTP Server (if necessary)
Create CloudWatch Alarms
AWS Backup Configuration
Javelin Cloud Health Check:
Analyze your existing system and provide you with a report. The service includes:
On demand checkups (scheduled in advance as required)
EC2 resource usage analysis
Network usage analysis
EBS Storage usage
Our team will also provide you with recommendations for upgrade/downgrade of EC2, EBS, or other Amazon resources
Disaster Recovery Validation Service
: Testing of backup systems to avoid major problems, typically includes 1 day to recreate, and 1 day of testing.
Verify consistency of backup data
Recreate PDM environment and restore data
Connect simulated client machines and test restored data
Provide reporting on results
Recommended annually
Additional Cloud Services
: There are a number of IT services that our experts can provide you, these include:
VPN Consulting Services
Remote Desktop Tools Support
Office 365 Administration
PDM Administration
Azure, AWS Administration
Network Administration and Consultation
Setup of a cloud based CAD workstation featuring an Nvidia Tesla graphics processor
Interested?
If you are interested in any of these SOLIDWORKS PDM or Cloud services then please
contact us »