SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional
has the functionality to
configure
SOLIDWORKS PDM
to send notifications through the default database message system or an SMTP mail server. Whereas
SOLIDWORKS PDM Standard
supports only the default database message system. But how do we set up the SMTP Server using an Email Proxy Application? That will be addressed in this article.
Why would I need to use an Email Relay?
There are multiple third-party applications available to use as an email proxy, this article will highlight only ONE of the many open-source applications that will act as the proxy to forward emails from one server to another.
It is the responsibility of users to set up and troubleshoot the setup of the Mail Proxy Server.
Step-by-Step: Setting up the Email Relay
Download and Extract the
Email Relay Application
Run the “EmailRelay-Setup.exe” file
Configure the Installation per the Screenshots below
Installation Directories:
emailrelay Installation Directories
Installation Type:
emailrelay Setup
SMTP Server
emailrelay SMTP Server Setup
SMTP Client
emailrelay SMTP Client Setup
Filters
emailrelay Filters
Logging
emailrelay Logging
Connections
emailrelay Connections Setup
Server Startup
emailrelay Server Startup
Complete the Setup
In the installation directory, you will find a couple of BAT files. You want to use “emailrelay-start-with-logfile.bat” to start the application.
Configuring SOLIDWORKS PDM to use the Specified SMTP Server
The settings for configuring the SMTP Mail Server within the Administration tool can be found on the SOLIDWORKS Help documentation:
Configuring the Message System
If the e-mail messages fail to be forwarded using the E-MailRelay system, check the spool directory for files with a .
bad
suffix. The reason for failure will be recorded within the envelope file.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Training
Javelin offers various
SOLIDWORKS PDM training courses
which cover all the new additions and features such as searching within the vault. PDM Administrator training covers topics such as this in great detail and ample examples and exercises are provided for PDM administrators to familiarize themselves with new additions to SOLIDWORKS PDM.