In this article, we are going to look at how to implement a SOLIDWORKS PDM Revision Numbering System, that incorporates both minor and major revisions.
Review our previous article for
a complete guide to increment a revision number via a workflow
How to create a SOLIDWORKS PDM Revision Numbering System for major and minor revisions
For this example, we’re going to create a system that uses uppercase alphabetical for major revisions, and numerical for a minor revision.  For example = A-01, B-01, C-01, C-02, C-03 etc.
First, we have to create our revision numbering components…
Administration Tool > Revisions > Revision Number Components
Right-Click >  New Component…
Revision Number Components
Next, we have to create the Revision Number System…
Administration Tool > Revisions > Revision numbers
Right-Click >  New revision number…
Add the revision number components we created in the previous step
Revision Number System
Now we have to implement this into the workflow.  In the appropriate workflow and state;
Administration Tool > Workflows > [Workflow Name]
Incorporate into a workflow
On the state where the revision is first applied:
For this example the ‘Approved’ state
Properties > Revision Numbers
Add the new revision number system
Leave the ‘Increment by’ and the ‘Reset to’ values blank
Save the workflow
Clear increment by on revision state
In the transition preceding the state where the revision is first applied;
For this example the ‘Passed Approval’ transition
Properties > Revision Numbers
Add the new revision number system
For both revision number components; set the ‘Reset to’ vault to 1
When files first enter this state, the revision will be set to A-01
In the transition preceding the state where the revision is first applied reset the revision components to 1
Now, we need to increment the appropriate revision in the corresponding state;
For the ‘Major Rev Change’ transition
Properties > Revision Numbers
For the
Major Rev Component
set the value to increment by 1
Major Rev Change transition
For the ‘Minor Rev Change’ transition
Properties > Revision Numbers
For the
Minor Rev Component
set the value to increment by 1
Minor Rev Component
Save and close the workflow.
As with any change in the vault; it’s imperative to test any changes thoroughly before implementing.  This is a great example of a change that should be implemented in a
sandbox vault
, ahead of the production vault.
Test thoroughly