In
SOLIDWORKS PDM 2020
we have the ability to define child reference state conditions, to prevent parent files from being transitioned before all the requirements are met.  In the example we’re going to use in this article, we’ve got the parent assembly;
Light.SLDASM
and we want to ensure that the assembly doesn’t get transitioned through
Submit for Approval
ahead of all it’s child reference parts and sub-assemblies being approved…this way the assembly and drawing can be rebuilt and updated ahead of being approved.
How to define Child Reference State Conditions
In this example, let’s use the Default vault setup.  The corresponding CAD workflow is
Default Workflow
, and we want all child files to be in the
Approved
state ahead of the parent being able to transition through
Submit for Approval
.
Administration Tool > Workflows > Default Workflow
Default Workflow
We would like to prevent the parent assembly from transitioning through
Submit for Approval
so we’ll modify the properties of the transition and add a condition
Default Wokflow > Submit for Approval
Conditions
Submit for Approval
Conditions >
<Click here to add a condition>
Variable =
Child Reference Current State
Comparison =
Text Equal To
Value =
Default Workflow.Approved
Default Workflow.Approved
Under Configuration / Path we could use wildcards and specify a file name or pattern etc, for example “%.sldprt” to limit this condition to just part files, but for this example we’ll leave it blank to apply to
all
child reference files.
Hit
OK
, then
Save
and close the workflow
Success!  The result is; we cannot transition the Light assembly until all it’s corresponding child references are in the
Approved
state.
Cannot transition the Light assembly until all it’s corresponding child references are in the Approved state
This just blew my mind!  Where can I learn more about customizing the workflow to increase efficiency?
Thanks for asking, here at Javelin we offer an
Administering SOLIDWORKS PDM Course
where Workflow creation and features like creating an automatic revision numbering system and much more are covered in detail, helping you to customize the vault to your company’s specific needs, and getting the vault to do the work so you don’t have to.