How do you encourage growth while maintaining your competitive edge? Download the paper to learn how manufacturers use data management to improve their ability to manage, secure, find, and leverage product data efficiently.
Today’s manufacturers face a host of challenges related to effectively managing product design and manufacturing data, not just within product development and manufacturing departments, but across the greater manufacturing enterprise. How well manufacturing organizations manage product and production data—and leverage this data to support related functions—has a direct bearing on a manufacturer’s ability to grow, as well as maintain and extend its competitive edge.
In an increasingly competitive global market, manufacturers must not only manage product and production data successfully, commonly known as product data management (PDM), they also need to effectively manage the distribution of product design and production data to related departments to improve their performance, a process known as distributed data management (DDM).
Download a White Paper to discover:
This paper examines the top five reasons why a manufacturer should improve their data management processes
and the ways that
SOLIDWORKS® data management solutions
can help them achieve their data management and business goals, by:
Boosting productivity by automating manual, repetitive tasks and minimizing delays
Improving product quality by eliminating revision errors and executing ECOs more efficiently
Facilitating collaboration by connecting teams and linking product development with production
Increasing organizational agility by shortening lead times and incorporating concurrent product development and manufacturing planning
Inspiring innovation by more efficiently eliciting feedback from across the enterprise
Data Management Solutions
On-premise solutions from DS SOLIDWORKS, plus solutions from Javelin can take the technologies to the cloud.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Standard
, powered by Microsoft® SQL Server Express and fully embedded into SOLIDWORKS 3D CAD and Windows® Explorer, provides an intuitive set of configurable tools to manage your SOLIDWORKS files.
SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional
, powered by Microsoft SQL Server Standard extends the capabilities of SOLIDWORKS PDM Standard to
allow your entire enterprise to easily share data
and collaborate on designs.
SOLIDWORKS Manage
provides a unique set of advanced data management tools. This is accomplished by leveraging the file management capabilities and ease of use of SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional and adding powerful
project
,
process
, and
item management
capabilities.
Javelin Cloud Services
, can help you to Plan, Design, Build, Migrate, Run, Operate, and Optimize SOLIDWORKS on the cloud. Javelin’s Certified Amazon Web Service (AWS) and Microsoft Azure Experts provide cloud infrastructure and application migration solutions to small and medium sized businesses. For any stage of your cloud planning, adoption, or management process, you can rely on the Javelin Team to help you achieve your goals.