SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional (formerly called Enterprise PDM) is NOT simple plug and play software. Once the software is deployed within an organization, it must be properly maintained by a qualified SOLIDWORKS PDM Administrator.  This individual is responsible for ensuring all maintenance tasks are properly executed, updating user information, and making configuration changes to the vault.
Javelin offers a two day (or four half day online)
Administering SOLIDWORKS Enterprise PDM training course
to teach these crucial skills.
Certified SOLIDWORKS PDM Administrators
New SOLIDWORKS PDM Certification Exam
In 2012 SOLIDWORKS introduced a new certification exam specifically for PDM Administrators.  The
Certified PDM Professional Administrator
examination is a challenging 2 hour exam that tests the ability of a PDM Administrator to perform both the common, everyday tasks required to maintain and modify a vault for their organization; as well as their ability to handle potential issues that may crop up.
In my opinion this is one of the best crafted exams I’ve encountered, focusing on very realistic situations that a PDM Administrator will very likely encounter.
For customers with a current SOLIDWORKS Subscription, this exam is offered for FREE
along with the
CSWP Offers for Subscription Service Customers
.
Why do you need to get PDM certified?
SOLIDWORKS Certifications are an industry recognized achievement that shows your ability to use and manage these tools properly.
At present, in Canada, there are only 36 Certified PDM Professional Administrators.  By contrast, there are currently over 2300 Certified SOLIDWORKS Professionals in this country alone –
learn more about the merits of being a certified user
.
Determine your strengths and weaknesses
Certification also helps you determine your strengths and your weaknesses.  Studying and preparing for certification is a challenging process, and may help to fill gaps in your knowledge that you didn’t even realize existed.  SOLIDWORKS has prepared a
Sample Exam
for the CPPA test as a study guide for those preparing to take the exam.
CPPA Certificate
If you have completed the SOLIDWORKS PDM Administration course and have had some hands on experience managing a vault, then you are ready to tackle the CPPA exam and prove that you can be a Certified PDM Professional Administrator.